Discards, tuples and out variables (#664)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/types.md

An enumeration type is a distinct type with named constants. Every enumeration type has an underlying type, which shall be `byte`, `sbyte`, `short`, `ushort`, `int`, `uint`, `long` or `ulong`. The set of values of the enumeration type is the same as the set of values of the underlying type. Values of the enumeration type are not restricted to the values of the named constants. Enumeration types are defined through enumeration declarations ([§18.2](enums.md#182-enum-declarations)).

### §tuple-types-new_clause Tuple types

A tuple type represents an ordered fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional. This syntax is shorthand for `System.ValueTuple<T1,..., Tn>` (or an equivalent type for long tuple types), which is a generic struct type available for each "arity" (length) of tuple type, with unconstrained type parameters for each tuple element type.

> The `ValueTuple<...>` types do not represent the optional element names, which are thus not part of the runtime representation of the tuple value, but impact how the tuple elements can be accessed. There is an identy conversion between all tuple types with the same arity and element types, and with the corresponding constructed `ValueTuple<...>` type.

Reviewer: Typo "identy".

Author: Fixed.

An enumeration type is a distinct type with named constants. Every enumeration type has an underlying type, which shall be `byte`, `sbyte`, `short`, `ushort`, `int`, `uint`, `long` or `ulong`. The set of values of the enumeration type is the same as the set of values of the underlying type. Values of the enumeration type are not restricted to the values of the named constants. Enumeration types are defined through enumeration declarations ([§18.2](enums.md#182-enum-declarations)).

### §tuple-types-new-clause Tuple types

> A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***.A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing every arity of tuple types.

Reviewer 2: nit: space missing.

```suggestion
A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***. A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing every arity of tuple types.
```

> Element names within a tuple type shall be distinct. It is an error for an explicit tuple element name to be of the form `ItemX` where `X` is any sequence of non-`0`-initiated decimal digits that could represent the position of a tuple element, except as the name for that actual element.

Reviewer 2: As we finish this approach, I think an example for this would add clarity.

Author: fixed in upcoming commit

> The optional element names are not represented in the `ValueTuple<...>` types, and are not stored in the runtime representation of a tuple value. There is an identity conversion between all tuple types with the same arity and element types, as well as to and from the corresponding constructed `ValueTuple<...>` type.

Reviewer 2: Should we add that the element types must be in the same order for the identity conversion?

Author: Fixed in upcoming commit

An enumeration type is a distinct type with named constants. Every enumeration type has an underlying type, which shall be `byte`, `sbyte`, `short`, `ushort`, `int`, `uint`, `long` or `ulong`. The set of values of the enumeration type is the same as the set of values of the underlying type. Values of the enumeration type are not restricted to the values of the named constants. Enumeration types are defined through enumeration declarations ([§18.2](enums.md#182-enum-declarations)).

### §tuple-types-new-clause Tuple types

> A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***.A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing every arity of tuple types.

Reviewer 3: > which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing every arity of tuple types

That isn't the way long tuple types are constructed.  `System.ValueTuple<int, int, int, int, int, int, int, int, int>` is an error.

Author: I picked weasel words to not directly say *how* they are capable of representing long tuples. But based on feedback from last meeting, we probably need to say a bit more about the scheme. I'll try to think of a balanced way to add more detail but not too much.

Reviewer 3: When you say "every arity", I assume you mean every arity greater than 1.  Because these are errors:
```
        System.ValueTuple x;
        if (x == x) {}
        System.ValueTuple<int> y = new System.ValueTuple<int>(1);
        if (y == y) {}
```

Author: Both issues fixed in upcoming commit.

> Element names within a tuple type shall be distinct. It is an error for an explicit tuple element name to be of the form `ItemX` where `X` is any sequence of non-`0`-initiated decimal digits that could represent the position of a tuple element, except as the name for that actual element.

Reviewer 3: You have not defined explicit tuple element names.

When saying "that actual element", *what* actual element are you referring to?

Author: Thanks, I'll do some word smithing.

Author: Fixed in upcoming commit.

> The optional element names are not represented in the `ValueTuple<...>` types, and are not stored in the runtime representation of a tuple value. There is an identity conversion between all tuple types with the same arity and the same sequence of element types, as well as to and from the corresponding constructed `ValueTuple<...>` type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The optional element names are not represented in the `ValueTuple<...>` types, and are not stored in the runtime representation of a tuple value. There is an identity conversion between all tuple types with the same arity and identity-convertible sequences of element types, as well as to and from the corresponding constructed `ValueTuple<...>` type.
```

Author: Fixed in upcoming commit.

> The `new` operator [§11.7.15.2](expressions.md#117152-object-creation-expressions) cannot be applied directly to a tuple type. Tuple values can be created from tuple expressions (§tuple-expressions-new-clause), or by applying the `new` operator directly to a type constructed from `ValueTuple<...>`.

Reviewer 3: But you previously said that the tuple type syntax is a shorthand for an instantiation of `ValueTuple`.  I think you mean to say that the `new` operator cannot be used with the tuple type syntax.

Author: Thanks, I'll change the wording.

Author: Fixed in upcoming commit.

### §tuple-types-new-clause Tuple types

A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***.A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing tuple types of any arity greater than one.

> > *Note*: There does not need to exist a `System.ValueTuple<...>` declaration that directly matches the arity of any tuple type with a corresponding number of type parameters. Instead, larger tuples can be represented with a special overload `System.ValueTuple<..., TRest>` that in addition to tuple elements has a `Rest` field containing a nested tuple value of the remaining elements. Such nesting may be observable in various ways, e.g. via the presence of a `Rest` field. *end note*

Reviewer 4: This will be interesting to add to the relevant annex...

Author: I added the `ValueTuple<...>` overloads that we actually use in .NET to the Annex. I hope that's acceptable.

Reviewer 4: Works for me :) (I wasn't sure whether we were going to try to allow any number of overloads to be available in an implementation.)

### §tuple-types-new-clause Tuple types

> A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***. A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two tuple type elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing tuple types of any arity greater than one.

Reviewer 5: “at least two tuple type elements” could be read as two of the `Tn` must be tuple types?

```suggestion
A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***. A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with n ≥ 2, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing tuple types of any arity greater than one.
```

> > *Note*: There does not need to exist a `System.ValueTuple<...>` declaration that directly matches the arity of any tuple type with a corresponding number of type parameters. Instead, larger tuples can be represented with a special overload `System.ValueTuple<..., TRest>` that in addition to tuple elements has a `Rest` field containing a nested tuple value of the remaining elements. Such nesting may be observable in various ways, e.g. via the presence of a `Rest` field. *end note*

Reviewer 5: This says an *n*-tuple in different implementations could be represented by a chain of *q* *m*-tuples and a final *p*-tuple where *n* = *q* × (*m*-1) + *p* and *m* is implementation dependent number. Do we need to say anything about how one implementation handles tuple values created by another with a different *m*?

Author: Captured in #768 to be addressed post-merge.

> > *Note*: There does not need to exist a `System.ValueTuple<...>` declaration that directly matches the arity of any tuple type with a corresponding number of type parameters. Instead, larger tuples can be represented with a special overload `System.ValueTuple<..., TRest>` that in addition to tuple elements has a `Rest` field containing a nested tuple value of the remaining elements. Such nesting may be observable in various ways, e.g. via the presence of a `Rest` field. *end note*

Reviewer 5: The compiler usually constructs the underlying `ValueTuple<>` chain. If the program constructs an n-tuple directly using `ValueTuple<>` then is the code potentially non-portable between implementations which declare a different number of `ValueTuple<>` sizes? Or does the compiler accept only flat `new ValueTuple…`?

Author: Captured in #768 to be addressed post-merge.

### §tuple-types-new-clause Tuple types

> A tuple type represents an ordered, fixed-length sequence of values with optional names and individual types. The number of elements in a tuple type is referred to as its ***arity***.A tuple type is written `(T1 I1, ..., Tn In)` with at least two tuple type elements, where the identifiers `I1...In` are optional ***tuple element names***. This syntax is shorthand for a type constructed with the types `T1...Tn` from `System.ValueTuple<...>`, which shall be a set of generic struct types capable of expressing tuple types of any arity greater than one.

Reviewer 4: Nit: space after `***arity***.`

Author: Fixed in upcoming commit.
